
Assignment2



question 1:




To list directory contents sorted by date in Linux, you can use the ls command with the -l (long format) option and 
the -t (sort by modification time, newest first) option. Here's the command:

ls -lt

This will display the contents of the current directory in long format with the newest files first.


question2:


If you want to include hidden files (those starting with a dot), you can add the -a option:

List the directory contents size-wise sorted.

ls -lS


question3

List directory contents along with their inode no.


ls -i


question4

List the contents of the subdirectory.

ls subdirectory_path

question5

Create a file, write your surname and name in it and save.
i. Open the same file and add your address in it and save.
ii. Reopen the same file and check your name and address in it.

i.echo "Hemadre swapnil" > myfile.txt
ii.echo "Address" >> myfile.txt       ----search
cat myfile.txt

question6

How to change the timestamp of a file (man touch).

touch -t YYYYMMDDhhmm.ss filename

question7

Create directory structure.

1)mkdir one
This command creates a new directory named "one" in your current working directory. 

2)cd one
This command will change your current working directory to the "one" directory.


3)touch 1.txt 11.txt 111.txt

It looks like you want to create three empty files named "1.txt," "11.txt," and "111.txt" in the current directory. You can use the touch command for this purpose


4)smkdir two
to create a directory named "two," you can use the mkdir command followed by the directory name. 

5)cd two
This command will change your current working directory to the "two" directory.

6)touch 2.txt 22.txt 222.txt

This command will create the specified empty files in the "two" directory.


7)mkdir three

This command will create a new directory named "three" in your current working directory. I


8)cd three

his command will change your current working directory to the "three" directory. 

9)touch 3.txt 33.txt 333.txt
 This command will create the specified empty files in the "three" directory. 
10)mkdir four
 This command will create a new directory named "four" in your current working directory
 






question8


i. ls five

ii. echo "swapnil" > four/44.txt

iii. rm five/555.txt

iv. cd one/two/three/four/five/

v. echo "Your Course Name" > three/3.txt && cat three/3.txt

vi. ls two

vii. rm two/222.txt

viii. cd one

ix. rm -f five/*

x. rmdir five

xi. rmdir four

xii. cd ~




question9


touch -t YYYYMMDDhhmm.ss three/3.txt

touch -t 202301011230.45 three/3.txt
























